Let's begin by first learning about how exceptions are represented on how they can be hundred.
An exception is simply an object of the class through habit or one off it's up process.
So to simply an object like any other good job object on Trouble is from the outline package under the
superclass of all exceptionally literate classes.
And as I mentioned earlier an exception indicates an exceptional situation like a partner solver going
on in such a case a method or a constructor gender's the exception.
Now let's head over to Eclipse and we will learn about exceptions by directory writing some code.
I've created a new package called com not semantics.
There are exceptions within the demo project and within the exceptions package classes have been created
one has exceptions them all and other is hitcher to be connected and within the exceptions class there
are two amateur's.
One is mine and the other is share on the share that is very similar with a shared method that we have
seen in the in the earlier project.
So if you recall in Threepio project the sheer method was used to share a bookmark with a fictitious
partner Web site called good snips.
And so the shared method is also very similar to that and within the history to be connected with us
.
We have this method called Center and the main method actually invokes shared motard and shared method
in done in Wilkes.
The sentiment that it's a static method and has GTP connect Ansen method actually does that are real
sharing of data of it with snips.
OK so even though share is supposed to do the sharing.
But the actual sharing will be done by send and it has all the low level details for shading off the
end of the with the partner Web site.
OK.
So that's the assignment.
So we have just three template metrics in each method.
We have to print statements one or the top one at the end at the top it says in site for example here
it says inside me are not the end users end of Main.
Similarly in shared how insights share on and off each year on scene with the Send method also and these
print statements have been included in order to look at the control flow.
So the control flow defers based on whether or not an exception is being has been generated.
If an exception is generated then you would how one type of water flow.
But if the next option is non-gendered then you will see a different control flow.
So in order to keep track of dock we have these print statements.
And so let's just go ahead and start filling up these methods.
Let's begin with the sand method and it has three parameters one in parameter on string parameters.
So here the data is one of the parameters and the goal of this method is to send this date talked with
a partner up site and destination retailers how the it is going to be transmitted.
So we have two ways in which the data can be shared.
So the first way if destination is zero it means that there will be written to a file on the local Sarber
on the harness and then there'll be some kind of a script which will push their data to the partner
Web site.
So that's one way.
And if destination is one it means that the Send method will programmatically push their data directly
to the partners partner to the partner site and really push it to its webservices let's say the part
of several host of absurdest ironed destination is one Sandwell directory pushed their data to the partners
absurdest.
OK so those are the two ways in which they can be shared with the partner Web site and exhibitor domain
but the value their destination has.
So let's begin and let's just assume that destination is one.
So in this lesson we will look at only when data is written to the file and through that process we
will learn something about how exceptions are generated are and how that can be handled in the next
lesson.
We will also look at the second approach.
One destination is to one destination is one and we will try to learn a few more concepts but we not
going to do any We are not going to write any code for shading off the data like writing good a file
are calling the passing grade of service that we are not going to do so because that's that's not in
the context here.
So you know our goal is to just learn about exceptions and be I just use using this example as a use
case.
OK.
So let's just go ahead and read this here now when we are if we have to write somebody to a file we
use a class called file output stream which is from the dollar package and is responsible for writing
the report with a fine.
Now if something goes wrong when writing the data then an exception will be generated by the file output
stream class.
OK but the exception will be generated by that particular class.
So if you just use that class you're not going to learn about how an exception can be generated.
Correct.
So the goal for us is to see how we can generate an exception because we are still learning a lot about
the exception generation process.
So let's just assume that we are trying to write the data file and somehow the file is missing.
So we need to generate an exception.
So that's an exceptional situation.
We say that exceptions need to be generated only an exceptional situations.
So in this case the exceptional situation is that there is no file and the file is actually missing
and we cannot write that out with that particular form.
So that's an exceptional situation.
So in this case we need to generate an error and an exception.
So for that we use something called a troll statement and it starts with a rookie.
And we said that an exception is basically an object of the class through mobile or one off it's subprocess
.
OK.
In this case B the subclass is called as a file not found exception and that's the exact class that's
also used by the file output stream class.
OK so if there is any error it generates the file not found exception.
So let's just use that class on gender to an instance of doc of that particular class
and it's giving a compiler error because we need to import it and it belongs to the IO package.
OK.
And it is a subclass off trouble and trouble is the superclass of all off all exceptions.
But it still gives a compiler error.
And that's because this particular method is generating this exception and there is some other code
which is invoked which will be been working this matter and that in working code needs to know about
this particular exception.
OK so here in this case this exception is being generated within the body of the Send method.
So it's an implementation detail but how will the in working code know about this particular exception
.
It needs to somehow know about it.
Right.
And for that we need to indicate that this particular method might throw this exception and that we
need to indicate that here in the in the in the method declaration itself.
So if I hover over it it gives me two options as one handle exception type unhandled exception type
either use surrounded with a quick catch but we will see later or add to this declaration.
And this is what we are going to do not now.
So it I it has added this exception to the declaration and it uses this keyword called Astro's.
OK Andreas can be followed by one or more exceptions.
OK.
So there is no more compiler compilation error.
So in all this and motard is saying that I might throw this exception also.
OK so that's what it is informing.
Any indication.
But if you go back to exceptions demobilize from the sheer method we are invoking the Send method and
this NABC a completion error here also.
And that's because the Send method has to handle this particular exception.
Now if I have got over it we again see the same options here.
It says either our throws declaration or surrounded with a try catch.
OK this time let's pick this up and once we look at that we will look at the first option also.
When I do that we have a try catch block here.
It's also called as an exception handler and the Send method is engrossed in the try block.
And there is a catch block here on the catch block has a parameter here called filing not found exception
.
OK.
So as you can see it looks very similar to we are calling it as a parameter.
So in that sense it is very similar to a matter.
All right.
You can't know within the.
This is the body of the catch block.
And here it's invoking a method called blenched daiquiris.
OK.
So this is the exception handler.
So if you want to write any recovery code when an exception is generated You need to write it here.
So basically an exception will be generated in the Send method and that exception will be handled here
.
So let's just go ahead and run this thing.
So as you can see if we initially were inside main then main is invoking share on Share is invoking
send.
And here you are passing zero.
So this needs to be zero here.
Let me just read on it.
Now you can see that within inside Senator.
So destination is zero.
And this statement is getting executed.
And as soon as this statement is gets executed the control goes back to the to the invoking method which
is share.
So the rest of the method is good to hear.
OK.
And this particular method and off center is not being rendered here only no share on enough meanness
here.
So the control goes back to the calling method.
So this method will be popped off the stack and then controller comes here.
And so then the exception is generated the exception of riposted the JVM and JVM and see if there is
an exception handling code within this method.
I know it's not there so.
So it pops off this method from the from the call stack and here it tries to see if there is an exception
handling code and there is an exception handler here.
So it just it just passes the exception object this particular pyramided it assigns it to this barometer
underpins the message.
And this is nothing but as doctoress basically does it gives information about the type of exception
here which is a file not found exception and it also gives her radius off the exception are sort of
created God generated initially on how that particular method got in.
For example here it says that the exception most generator that has strictly be connect at line pen
within the history class on that particular method was invoked from share method or here at line 17
.
That's very.
This meant that method was invoked and shared was again invoked by another method main.
OK so that's how you have done to try and catch block.
This is how you handle the mechanism.
This is how you handle exceptions and you would have some recovery code here.
OK.
So if an exception is generated it means it's generated in some exceptional situation in which case
we handle it.
And so you would have some recovery code here now.
So there is.
So you had this we thought this strike would be what we were getting a compilation error.
So the next step is if you are not handling it here and if we want to why compiler error then shared
method can actually can actually relate the error.
Which means it says that I'm not going to handle it much.
The Invoking method might be able to handle it.
So I'm just going to relate back with my main working mother.
OK so let's try that option also.
So in this case let's pick the first option as you can see it's the truest gloss has been added here
and the compiler is here.
So let's start on this share method with try catch block knowledge's just go ahead and look at the control
flow.
So you are inside.
Here you are inside us and then an exception has been generated.
And so this statement is not getting executed here Anderson method is bumped off the stack and control
comes back here and to the class and sees that the JVM sees that there is an exception handler here
.
So it's not going to even bring this statement and off share.
And I do not support the sharing method from the call stack and then it will go into the main method
and see if there is an X if there is a class here.
If there is an exception handler here and it is here it's going to print this thing.
And after the catch block then this statement will get executed and off Maine will get executed OK.
So you can see the control flow here.
Now so after the catch block is executed then the statements following the catch block will be executed
.
Now if he'd come and this out the only other thing or only other option as the main method would also
have to throw the exception.
But then in which case this statement will not get executed.
So in none of the statements will get executed because the the keep the JVM keeps popping off those
and those methods off the stock.
And finally it gets here it also pops this off and there is no other method to handle it.
I enjoy them also.
But you know it gives up and the program dominates.
Now if this is if this was a web application with hundreds of threads running simultaneously then one
third will be handling one user request and with in that case if such kind of an exception is generated
if it does not handle finally that that particular thread that belongs to that user will be terminated
.
OK.
So this is what we have here.
And and here one thing I can show is you can also have this and this particular gadget and actually
read toerag even this can be done.
So which means that control comes here.
But then this is going to read through it.
And then it needs to the main hospital still handle it OK or it needs to just you know relay it so you
can also catch block and also to an error.
So that's about it.
So we have looked at the exception generation on handling process and then the next lesson we will also
write the next block here for Destination equal to one and we'll try to explore a little bit more about
exceptions.
OK thank you.
And you can find the court and the resources section for it.
If the files do not how bargello extension and if to not be XDR or some other exception extension just
gone what did Kadar Java and you can compile and run it.
OK thank you.
See you in the next lesson.
Unhappy according